_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "Brad Curtis"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am a fifth-year Ph.D. candidate in Economics at the University of Georgia  [**CV**](/files/Brad Curtis CV 2025.pdf){: .btn .btn--small} 

I will be on the 2025-2026 job market

My research fields are Health Economics and Industrial Organization 

**Contact Information:** Bradley.Curtis@uga.edu


**Job Market Paper:** The Cost of Clarity: Tradeoffs to Public Investments in Rural Diagnostic Care [**Link**](/files/JMP_Curtis.pdf){: .btn .btn--small} 
 
 **Abstract**: Rural hospitals face persistent financial constraints that limit investment in advanced medical technologies, creating disparities in health care quality between rural and urban areas. This paper examines the cost-access trade-off associated with deploying expensive diagnostic equipment in rural markets by studying the diffusion of 3D-mammography (3DM) technology for breast cancer screening in Georgia. I exploit quasi-exogenous variation in rural 3DM supply generated by a state subsidy program that increased adoption rates by 20 percentage points. Using patient-level screening records from 2016--2019, I find that 3DM adoption increases the conditional probability of receiving a 3DM-screening by 45 percentage points, primarily through substitution from 2D-mammography. Distance significantly affects technology choice: being one mile further from the nearest 3DM provider reduces the probability of receiving a 3DM-screening by 0.08 percentage points, though this sensitivity varies with patient risk factors and socioeconomic status. I estimate a structural model of screening demand to quantify welfare effects, finding that rural 3DM investments generated \$0.45 in total surplus per dollar invested. Counterfactual simulations reveal substantial heterogeneity across hospitals. Targeting investments toward more remote hospitals with sufficient local populations maximizes social returns by reducing socially redundant business stealing while ensuring technology deployment at economically viable scale.

Commit message:

Revise abstract for job market paper on rural diagnostic care
Updated the abstract to reflect recent policy efforts and findings on the cost-access trade-off of 3D-mammography in rural hospitals.

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "Brad Curtis"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am a fifth-year Ph.D. candidate in Economics at the University of Georgia  [**CV**](/files/Brad Curtis CV 2025.pdf){: .btn .btn--small} 

I will be on the 2025-2026 job market

My research fields are Health Economics and Industrial Organization 

**Contact Information:** Bradley.Curtis@uga.edu


**Job Market Paper:** The Cost of Clarity: Tradeoffs to Public Investments in Rural Diagnostic Care [**Link**](/files/JMP_Curtis.pdf){: .btn .btn--small} 
 
 **Abstract**: Rural hospitals face financial constraints that hinder investment in new medical technologies, contributing to disparities in health care quality between rural and
urban areas. To address access gaps, recent policy efforts have funded investment
subsidies for rural hospitals. By expanding access to advanced medical technologies,
these policies can meaningfully improve clinical outcomes for underserved rural populations. However, housing high-cost technologies at low-volume rural hospitals may
not be cost-effective. This paper examines the cost-access trade-off associated with
deploying expensive diagnostic equipment in rural markets by studying the diffusion
of 3D-mammography (3DM). My analysis focuses on the market for breast cancer
screenings in rural Georgia, where a subsidy for rural hospitals alleviated financial
constraints, facilitating the adoption of 3DM. I show that the subsidy increased the
cumulative probability of adoption by 20 percentage points (140 percent). Leveraging
changes in geographic access to 3DM over time, I demonstrate how distance to 3DM
affects patients’ technology choices and screening outcomes. Following the adoption
of 3DM at a rural hospital, I estimate a 45 percentage point increase in the probability that local patients will screen with 3DM instead of 2D mammography (2DM).
Increased 3DM uptake improves local screening outcomes, reducing the average likelihood of a false-positive scan by 1.8 percentage points (21 percent). To study the
trade-off between access and cost, I estimate a structural model of demand for mammography. Counterfactual analyses show that a blanket investment policy funding
3DM upgrades at every rural hospital is inefficient, resulting in over-investment in
high-access markets where adoption is socially redundant, or in sparsely populated
markets that cannot sustain sufficient demand. Welfare is maximized by a targeted
investment policy that allocates 3DM scanners to hospitals operating in midsize markets where patients are geographically isolated from incumbent 3DM providers.
