_pages/publications.md, before:

---
layout: single
title: "Working Papers"
permalink: /publications/
author_profile: true
---

### The Cost of Clarity: Tradeoffs to Public Investments in Rural Diagnostic Care [**JMP**](/files/JMP_Curtis.pdf){: .btn .btn--small} 
 
 **Abstract**: Rural hospitals face persistent financial constraints that limit investment in advanced medical technologies, creating disparities in health care quality between rural and urban areas. This paper examines the cost-access trade-off associated with deploying expensive diagnostic equipment in rural markets by studying the diffusion of 3D-mammography (3DM) technology for breast cancer screening in Georgia. I exploit quasi-exogenous variation in rural 3DM supply generated by a state subsidy program that increased adoption rates by 20 percentage points. Using patient-level screening records from 2016--2019, I find that 3DM adoption increases the conditional probability of receiving a 3DM-screening by 45 percentage points, primarily through substitution from 2D-mammography. Distance significantly affects technology choice: being one mile further from the nearest 3DM provider reduces the probability of receiving a 3DM-screening by 0.08 percentage points, though this sensitivity varies with patient risk factors and socioeconomic status. I estimate a structural model of screening demand to quantify welfare effects, finding that rural 3DM investments generated \$0.45 in total surplus per dollar invested. Counterfactual simulations reveal substantial heterogeneity across hospitals. Targeting investments toward more remote hospitals with sufficient local populations maximizes social returns by reducing socially redundant business stealing while ensuring technology deployment at economically viable scale.
  
**Presented at** 

  -ASHEcon 2025, Emerging Scholars Session: Economics of Hospital Care 
  
  -SEA 2025, Session: Health Economics (Upcoming) 

<!-- Add links when ready -->
<!-- [PDF](/files/tech_adoption_3dm_curtis.pdf){: .btn .btn--small} [Slides](/files/tech_adoption_slides.pdf){: .btn .btn--small} -->

---

### Investing in Access: The Impact of Hospital Subsidies on Healthcare Supply in Rural Areas 
**Abstract.** Rural hospitals receive a significant portion of their revenue from government subsidies. However, we know little about how rural hospitals use government funds, as prior research has focused exclusively on urban and suburban hospitals. In this paper, I assess how rural hospitals allocate government subsidy dollars as well as the impacts of increased subsidization on rural hospital profitability and access to care in rural communities. I exploit variation arising from a Georgia policy that sharply increased subsidies to rural hospitals and estimate difference-in-differences models that compare outcomes of rural Georgia hospitals to rural hospitals in other southern states before versus after the policy change. Using financial data from Medicare cost reports, I find that rural hospitals invest subsidy dollars in physical capital. Rural hospitals put 75-cents of every additional subsidy dollar into fixed assets like medical equipment and facilities. After making these investments, rural hospitals house new diagnostic imaging tools and see increased utilization of inpatient services. With higher patient volumes, subsidized hospitals earn higher profits from medical operations. These results suggest that rural hospitals respond to increased subsidization by making investments in physical capital that bolster profits and increase access to care in rural communities. 

**Presented at**

  -SEA 2024, Session: Health, Education, and Welfare 
  
  -ASHEcon 2025, Session: The Effects of Hospitals and the Healthcare Workforce on Patient Care

<!-- [PDF](/files/rural_imaging_targeting_curtis.pdf){: .btn .btn--small} -->

Commit message:

Revise abstract for 'The Cost of Clarity' publication
Updated the abstract of the publication to clarify the impact of subsidies on rural hospitals and the cost-access trade-off of 3D-mammography technology.

_pages/publications.md, after:

---
layout: single
title: "Working Papers"
permalink: /publications/
author_profile: true
---

### The Cost of Clarity: Tradeoffs to Public Investments in Rural Diagnostic Care [**JMP**](/files/JMP_Curtis.pdf){: .btn .btn--small} 
 
 **Abstract**: Rural hospitals face financial constraints that hinder investment in new medical technologies, contributing to disparities in health care quality between rural and
urban areas. To address access gaps, recent policy efforts have funded investment
subsidies for rural hospitals. By expanding access to advanced medical technologies,
these policies can meaningfully improve clinical outcomes for underserved rural populations. However, housing high-cost technologies at low-volume rural hospitals may
not be cost-effective. This paper examines the cost-access trade-off associated with
deploying expensive diagnostic equipment in rural markets by studying the diffusion
of 3D-mammography (3DM). My analysis focuses on the market for breast cancer
screenings in rural Georgia, where a subsidy for rural hospitals alleviated financial
constraints, facilitating the adoption of 3DM. I show that the subsidy increased the
cumulative probability of adoption by 20 percentage points (140 percent). Leveraging
changes in geographic access to 3DM over time, I demonstrate how distance to 3DM
affects patients’ technology choices and screening outcomes. Following the adoption
of 3DM at a rural hospital, I estimate a 45 percentage point increase in the probability that local patients will screen with 3DM instead of 2D mammography (2DM).
Increased 3DM uptake improves local screening outcomes, reducing the average likelihood of a false-positive scan by 1.8 percentage points (21 percent). To study the
trade-off between access and cost, I estimate a structural model of demand for mammography. Counterfactual analyses show that a blanket investment policy funding
3DM upgrades at every rural hospital is inefficient, resulting in over-investment in
high-access markets where adoption is socially redundant, or in sparsely populated
markets that cannot sustain sufficient demand. Welfare is maximized by a targeted
investment policy that allocates 3DM scanners to hospitals operating in midsize markets where patients are geographically isolated from incumbent 3DM providers.

  
**Presented at** 

  -ASHEcon 2025, Emerging Scholars Session: Economics of Hospital Care 
  
  -SEA 2025, Session: Health Economics (Upcoming) 

<!-- Add links when ready -->
<!-- [PDF](/files/tech_adoption_3dm_curtis.pdf){: .btn .btn--small} [Slides](/files/tech_adoption_slides.pdf){: .btn .btn--small} -->

---

### Investing in Access: The Impact of Hospital Subsidies on Healthcare Supply in Rural Areas 
**Abstract.** Rural hospitals receive a significant portion of their revenue from government subsidies. However, we know little about how rural hospitals use government funds, as prior research has focused exclusively on urban and suburban hospitals. In this paper, I assess how rural hospitals allocate government subsidy dollars as well as the impacts of increased subsidization on rural hospital profitability and access to care in rural communities. I exploit variation arising from a Georgia policy that sharply increased subsidies to rural hospitals and estimate difference-in-differences models that compare outcomes of rural Georgia hospitals to rural hospitals in other southern states before versus after the policy change. Using financial data from Medicare cost reports, I find that rural hospitals invest subsidy dollars in physical capital. Rural hospitals put 75-cents of every additional subsidy dollar into fixed assets like medical equipment and facilities. After making these investments, rural hospitals house new diagnostic imaging tools and see increased utilization of inpatient services. With higher patient volumes, subsidized hospitals earn higher profits from medical operations. These results suggest that rural hospitals respond to increased subsidization by making investments in physical capital that bolster profits and increase access to care in rural communities. 

**Presented at**

  -SEA 2024, Session: Health, Education, and Welfare 
  
  -ASHEcon 2025, Session: The Effects of Hospitals and the Healthcare Workforce on Patient Care

<!-- [PDF](/files/rural_imaging_targeting_curtis.pdf){: .btn .btn--small} -->
